As the strength coach to some of the
strongest athletes in the world,
including the strongest man in the
world, I want to give you my top 10
exercises that'll give you the best
results in building a strong body that
looks good and performs better than most
of the gym bros out there. Let's start
with the upper body. Incline dumbbell
press. Of all the possible pressing
angles, the incline is the most
complete. It builds the largest portion
of the pecs and a large portion of the
front delts. Flat press is not enough
upper pec and delts and completely
upright pressing is not enough pecs. So
incline pressing is the sweet spot. And
I choose dumbbells over barbell or
machines because this is going to allow
for a greater range of motion than
barbells and a more natural range than
machines. Next up, neutral grip pull
downs. Of all the upper body pull
exercises like rows, pull-ups, and pull
downs, this would have to be the most
complete and most comfortable to
execute. The reason I chose this over a
pull up is simply due to the load
ability. Pull-ups are an excellent
exercise, but they're just too heavy to
learn with for most people and very easy
to perform incorrectly. Starting from a
full stretch and finishing with the bar
on the chest with the shoulder blades
retracted and depressed or in other
words back and down towards the back
pockets. It's the equivalent of the
incline dumbbell press being performed
in the opposite direction. Next, we do
arms. It would be nice to think that we
already trained arms with the incline
press and the pull downs, but
unfortunately compound exercises neglect
certain muscles of the arms that can
really only be targeted through
isolation exercises. So, here they are.
Easy bar skull crushers. This is my
favorite isolation tricep builder.
Pairing this with the incline press is
the perfect addition because it includes
the long head of the triceps, which is
neglected in the incline dumbbell press.
The skull crusher takes the triceps
through the perfect range of motion. And
the easy bar has the loadability
advantage over dumbbells or machines.
Now for the biceps, easy bar curls. Just
like how pressing neglects triceps,
pulling and rowing neglects biceps. So
we need to include an exercise that
isolates them. I choose the easy bar
curls because it's the most comfortable
position for the wrists and also super
convenient to perform as a superset with
your easy bar skull crushers. Next up,
one of mine and many of the best
bodybuilders favorite exercises, the
standing dumbbell lateral raise. It
targets the middle head of the deltoids,
which gives the broad shoulder look that
completes everyone's physique. Next,
we'll go to the lower body quads. I
choose the high bar squat. The goal is
to achieve full depth where the
hamstring presses against the calf in
the bottom position, which maximizes the
depth and therefore maximizes the quads
and glutes development. The front squat
also achieves a lot of knee bend, but we
can't load that as much. And the low bar
allows us to lift more, but we don't
bend our knees as much. So, the high bar
squat is the perfect balance of
loadability and range of motion for the
quadriceps. Next, leg extensions. This
is a must for complete quadriceps
development. One muscle that all squat
patterns neglect is the rectus forous.
And the only way to target that muscle
is to isolate it, which means we fix the
hip joint so that we can load the rectus
forous and all heads of the quadriceps
through knee joint extension. So the
front of the legs are covered. What
about the back of the legs? I choose the
Romanian deadlift. It's just a better
muscle builder than the conventional
deadlift. The reason we can lift more
with a conventional deadlift is because
we can bend the knees more, which adds
more quads, but takes the hamstrings out
of the equation. I'm not saying that the
conventional deadlift is bad. I'm just
saying that the conventional deadlift
spreads the load across so many muscles
in our body that it dilutes the
hamstrings and the glute building
potential that we can get from the
Romanian deadlift. Something else worth
knowing is the combination of high bar
squats and RDL's will absolutely build
your conventional deadlift. So although
you're not training the conventional
deadlift directly, trust me, it's
getting stronger. Next, the hamstring
curl. As good as the Romanian deadlift
is, it neglects one of the heads of the
hamstrings that is only responsible for
knee joint flexion. I use lying
hamstring curls because I don't have the
seated version. And that's okay.
However, if I'm being completely honest,
the seated version hits the hamstrings
in a more stretch position. So, it has a
small advantage in muscular development,
but it's not a deal breakaker. And
finally, calves. I choose the standing
one-legged calf raise. You can't have a
complete physique without calves. And
this is my favorite version of the calf
phrase for the most complete
development. Of course, there's so many
other great exercises to include through
various phases of your program. But if
you're spending most of your training
year prioritizing these 10 exercises,
you'll get the best results in muscle
building and strength gains in the
shortest time possible. Of course, there
are so many other facets that we need to
include with this to ensure that you're
getting the absolute most out of these
10 exercises, such as the execution of
these movements, the amount of reps,
sets, and the intensity that you're
performing these exercises. But we're
going to get to those in a later
episode, but for now, those are my top
10 exercises that you can't go wrong
with. So, how did you think I went?
Like, did you think that was okay? Like,
how I said it was okay. Ah, thanks, man.